hello everyone its Elena and CJ I'm
Andrew ed Ross and we got all your
questions that we asked for in our last
video so today we're gonna answer
hopefully all of them about Cambridge
and yeah let's get started any advice
for a law personal statement
what wider reading and work experience
did you do I didn't know why the reading
I didn't know work experience I didn't
mention my what experience so it doesn't
really matter I mean I did eight weeks
and they didn't even mention it that's
all I did a bit of work experience at a
high court so I sat for a week on the
bench High Court and I also went to a
couple of law firms up in London and
that was brought up a little bit during
my interview it wasn't that it wasn't
that extensively so I wouldn't worry too
much about it I think just it's only
important to show that you have wider
interest in your subject and let young
you're actually engaging with it on some
level I'm currently choosing between law
and history how do I make sure law is
the right course for me also what advice
would you give for the interview how is
yours okay let's go for the first one
fingers right there like how to choose
if it all was the right thing for you so
I was choosing between little war and
physics yeah so I I was struggling to
choose whatever I wanted to do law of
physics and a big part of it was that I
knew that I enjoyed physics and I didn't
know whether I'd enjoy it nor not and I
think really what was said to me was
basically just turn up to Cambridge
going to a couple of lectures see how
you enjoy supervisions
because if you really really dislike it
there's always the option that you can
swap while you're here and bear in mind
that you don't need a law degree to be a
lawyer here yeah so yeah also there if
you are really really unsure or one
thing about highly recommend is going to
public lectures so a lot of universities
have public events which are lectures
and so you can just sign up for me since
you don't even you sign up and you can
just show up so just check like
universities that are nearby you and
what events the faculties have and you
just go to a few of them so that you get
a bit of an idea of what it would be
like to sit in a course like history or
law and if you're based before
leapin one of them Emmaline you know
that's probably an indicator this is not
the right field for you and that just
also gives you a bit of a sense of what
it would be like to study the subject oh
and there was one the second part about
interview so if you may know if you come
to Cambridge to interview um you have to
sign a nondisclosure agreement that
you're not going to talk about the exact
details of you interview but I did make
a video about my interview which is as
detailed as it can possibly be and
complied with the agreement and you can
find that video up here and you can also
find it in the info box below and um
there are all the details that I can
give you guys and there's also some
links to a practice interview that the
faculty uploaded and that I found really
really useful and preparing for it do we
have to be like ranked 1 on class to get
accepted into Cambridge no no well but
it doesn't hurt like no are you also
doing a semester abroad
no you can't do a semester abroad but
you can do a year abroad but that is
still a bit unclear because a brexit but
if the Erasmus program continues then
you will be able to go abroad into
another EU country and you can do a year
flow there but then you're turning your
free year law degree into a four-year
law degree best study to plan your time
definitely check out Elena's video on
planning your time yeah you do oh yeah
very important sleep do not not sleep
yes imagine not sleeping yet no actually
I wouldn't see Jim did you have to take
the English language proficiency test no
my school's qualifications for English
was sufficient for the English
proficiency test I think this one's also
for you how did you apply for a tier 4
visa I applied online there are a lot of
information and guidance the fate of all
the international students that's like I
think it's international students that
can like AC that Yuki which I think it
ain't never link below sure and yeah so
all the information you have is down
there is actually really simple process
so I think this is also one for you I
think it's because you're the only like
I'm the overseas international good
already interview and Emerson
test how the Singapore British Council
or in school the British Consulate thing
is fully unaffiliated that we've
cambridge interview so like they've been
held in various schools so mine was my
interviewers i raffles and my test was
at home studying at cambridge changed
your career prospects no yes maybe law
firms actually want me now yes how is I
think studying at Cambridge as well you
get given so many opportunities and
things that I yeah I say on one half I'm
considering other stuff apart from North
as well just because of the amount of
obviously needs to be half and then
always say studying normal enabled me to
understand why I actually like and
probably understand better what I want
to go into so just remember that
studying law is not the be-all end-all
no have you got a paper planner yes yes
and I don't use it yeah I don't use it I
use a Canon home that's available on all
Apple devices same I actually made a
video about how I manage my time is a
control student and how I use my digital
planner and my paper planner and you can
find that video up here and in the
infobox below
is there anything you wish you had known
before starting at Cambridge there life
is hard that you'll find people that you
actually like here I'm gonna see missus
about me I think one of the things that
I wish I'd known is that that
recommendation of forty eight hours of
work for doll without actually a
recommendation it's actually what you
have to do it's a mecca diamas yeah
export they were kind of like
exaggerating a bit because I mean 40
hours of independent work is like doing
a full-time job
but then in addition to that you have 13
hours of lectures and supervisions a
week so actually you're doing more than
a full-time job whenever there's no way
but yeah well there is a way anyway
that's why we all look not alive for
your friends what results did you get in
your exams like I BA levels etc I took
miss Singaporean version of the e levels
and
I got seven distinctions which is
basically what the Mex I could get you
free eight stars one a380
how does dude in finance work UK
government in college in your room
Student Finance is yes you just apply
for online I think it's like a
maintenance loan and it's based on your
household income so it will if your
maintenance grant is something on top of
your tuition loan so I think everyone is
entitled to it tuition loan have you
entitled to automatically four thousand
pounds maintenance alone and depending
on your household income you can go up
to eight thousand pounds
yeah and then that's just that will go
to your rent and also if it covers your
end which one doesn't then you will be
able to use the extra for food and
whatever you want really yeah also even
if you don't want to use student finance
but you aren't used to normal UK student
and these for John's apply for it
anywhere you can get out of it later but
you need to show that you are eligible
for funding through Student Finance in
order not to pay the college fees
because the college fee is an additional
few thousand pounds and just by applying
Student Finance and showing the letter
that you would have gotten some money
from Suppan in you don't have to pay
that so do it yeah I'm pretty sure
international students like you field
non-eu will mollify I don't think yeah
it's only for young students so yeah
don't forget that like on top of two
minutes you can apply for bursaries
because John's is like one of the nice
gentleness colleges for international
students there's a Cambridge trusting
they're quite so that you're giving out
scholarships which is just money to you
so it might be an option
yeah definitely if you get any emails
back fine for anything where you can get
funding just apply it's more yeah how to
choose Oxford a came for it'll choose
there's no choice here guys a clear on
size Cambridge
yeah what's the best college John's
definitely I don't subscribe to that
idea that yeah all colleges are good in
their own right
choose the college is best for you
okay Jones how do you balance the
workload and social life at Cambridge I
think balance it's a very strong word
yeah I think that with your workload
it's obviously about getting the work
done
but there is a certain point in which
you have to be like I've done all the
work I wanna do for the day and even if
you think that you're slightly mind is
still better for you to actually just
have a social life so the balance is
about you being able to stop and and
actually realizing that you hit all or
that you just need to have a break and
so on that in that regard I think it's
okay but it's also about being able to
go to the library for however long you
need to in actually doing the work
well sure there I think I'm after really
great things is that everybody has a
nice dressing degree so it did fully
understand if you said oh I can't go out
I need to work and there's like no you
know like judgement or pressure like oh
you should come out with us know like
people fully understand and accept that
and I think that's really really great
about it what are some of the best
things about st. John's everything yeah
like the food my granny is it's pretty
good oh really I would say really really
good like if someone who came from a
boarding school where like sometimes in
a canteen you would not really know what
you were eating because it just didn't
have a real taste the food here is
freaking amazing also the food in formal
halls it's really really great but
everything the best thing about John's
is the people I know it sounds like
we're really cheesy but like the
students are amazing I know that there's
a bit of a prejudice towards John's as
being a very like posh college but
honestly everybody I've met here is
really really welcoming home boom and
the other thing is staff is also really
amazing Sebastian in a porter they're
angels like they are so kind like we
love you guys so much unlike a certain
culture supporters and like a lot then
continuity
want to do a PhD yes no I'm going to
sell my soul are you selling us all
probably not I mean probably not doing a
PhD so yes spelling out thought let me
miss telling this all that going into a
commercial aka selling my soul to the
corporate machinery and I'm I'm I'm a
piece of it very apiece
how are you sick
alright he's all pretty depressing about
life and let all that matters right yeah
I mean it to be fair like at times we
have quite stress but I think generally
we are fine first impression of
Cambridge big cold I think this is my
favorite question by phone all day
single so just to clarify it says they
so I guess nobody wants to know it and
they go oh no sir
are you guys single no no wait what
please married yes college marry oh yes
if you guess I know what college
marriage is it's basically um somebody
asks you to marry the rest of all like
an official marriage to like a college
marriage is that a platonic thing like
you know some College marry someone that
you're like romantically interested in
for the Cure that's a big to be no yeah
also like you you will then get college
kids so that's I'm doing reversed years
come and they get some college parents
who are like you know supposed to guide
you a little bit tell you where things
are if you've any questions about
student life you can ask them what did
they do to get into Cambridge study
study how do you manage finances a
student
ofc Jonas the master do is the question
so what I do is the I self cater
half my meals so like I do lunch in a
buttery and I do dinner I cook dinner
and I guess like Papas I don't go out a
lot anyway so like I don't spend much
money on everything else and I bring a
lot of stuff from home like back from
Singapore so that kind of saves me some
money as well and what something good
it's like to save a budget everybody
stick to it
and like you know it's very hard to
stick to about
I mean it's okay I just need to be aware
of how much you're spending I think yeah
and once you're aware that it's fine
because like then if you spend less this
weekend I can spend morning sleep and
like you know if your parents come up to
visit look up always worth every
champagne yeah yeah that is the that's
that's that's the pinnacle of the Qatar
there's no visit GCC's for low at
Cambridge and yeah I mean yeah yeah I
mean even at a levels that don't matter
because uh this guy who studies low of
us and he did maps and triple sciences
and he's still coming yeah but max is
actually recommended for all um so if
you guys want to know what subjects I
recommended I'm gonna link that in the
info box below so the university has
some guidance on that but please note
that is not binding and you can still
apply even if you didn't have any of the
recommended subject does the University
of Cambridge accept students who have
never studied in English before yes how
many subjects do you have to study and
how many hours do you study during today
we take four and a half papers this yeah
five next year and five the year after
we ice Gerry study about six five six
hours a day yeah I'd say six eight hours
a day yeah same it doesn't hold on the
reading this is reading yeah but even
how much panic you are in yes I know but
it's it's kind of all in line if the 40
hours a week kind of thing so yeah how
do you deal with stress what is the
support for stress and mental well-being
like at Cambridge okay it's about the
support there's actually quite a lot
support available and I think what's
really important is just to note that in
university you're a lot more on your own
so people are unlikely to come up to you
and be like oh do you need support if
they would pro me in high school
you know when they think you're
struggling so if you ever feel like
you're struggling in university and I
think this is for any university
wherever you're studying say it okay
because it's very unlikely and someone's
going to come up to you and be like are
you okay like do you need some support
but as soon as you say I need some
support there's actually a lot available
and people are really open to help so
our College has
College cancer where you can get you
know if you need to talk about some
issues that you're having you can also
make use of the University Counseling
Service you can go to the nurse and she
can advise you where you should go with
whatever issue you're having they also
require you to register with a GP so you
can also just go and see your doctor
about it and generally my tip is to just
go to the nurse and she'll tell you
where you can go and if there's anything
like really emergency mental health
crisis related you can always go to the
porters and they then know what to do
and there's also lighting Nightline
right we shouldn't call it night like a
lot of us I kind of just talked to
someone if you really just need chat um
and I think generally for us how would
you stress is sometimes I just honestly
stay in and like watch a movie eat some
chocolate yeah and that's just very
therapeutic so yes I remember to just
need that but I think sometimes I'm also
really grateful that she shouldn't just
comes around she's like I'm gonna force
you to walk out of now a room sorry guys
I think what types of things did you do
in high school that you think will be
prepared or accepted into Cambridge I
did off SCB subjects so I think that
really helps in delivery right thing I
also wrote on one of my essay is on a
legal case so I think that just helped
me a bit was like yeah like some of the
ideas that exist in you know legal
academia and I think just generally of
writing a lot of essays really have to
know also one thing that at least helped
me at all is what I realized that I had
a curriculum which was already at a
pretty high level in terms of workload
because then at the i-beam and you were
already required to do a lot of
independent work so when I came to
university it was much easier to adapt
to the fact that nobody's gonna check on
what I did my homework on what is the
nightlife like at Cambridge how many
times a week realistically go out
clubbing to the bar etc or realistically
everyday I can't talk because I don't go
out
I ain't got that much so enter but after
off so it sa really depends so I I've
sort of figured out recently that it
depends on what you want to do so you
saw through you saw what three things
you know I have got extracurriculars
social or and work and you can pick two
and do those well and if you try and do
all three then you're gonna sort crash
and burn so I think that if you're if
you're doing a word in want to go out
with a law degree
you can probably afford to go out maybe
twice a week if you're on top of your
work any more than there then maybe like
a special occasion you know three times
a week if you're getting out more than
three times a week frequently or you're
going out like four times a week then
you're probably gonna get pulled into a
dos meeting but because it's a it's a
struggle to do your work well it also
bear in mind the thing about being a law
student is that I've known II do you
have like a tremendous mental reading
but also you get invited by law firms so
you have to take that into account to
have like dinner with them because they
they like to promote themselves so that
can almost count as a night out because
it's less time that you can spend
reading so but if you get invited to
those and you have a choice between a
law firm and a night club always use an
orphan yes I agree pound in yeah with
free with you champey open bar
champagnes with free alcohol and yeah
they just pay for everything and in my
first year I saw like you even have to
worry about back schemes or anything
unless you'll see Jen said oh and then
per se so you can just sort of chill out
and just enjoy also it's a networking
opportunity you know ya might want to
get a job after your degree interested
less competition you know how is the
work load compared to the i-beam um so I
did the IV and I think I'm actually
looking back now I'm so so grateful
actually like how it's tough date dumped
on you during the IV because then when
you come to university you're just so
much you know more organized when you
have a lot of things to do and i think i
do more work now
and that i did drink your IV but it's
quite comparable but the difference is
that now i only do things that I really
really enjoy because I only said it all
which is whatever you wanted to do
whereas in Div also have to study
subjects that you don't actually like as
much I was catering for yourself in
college
good I like I like cooking cooking is
like my therapy so like I like 6:00 p.m.
how much for my the cocoons of my room
and I need to cook and I could find out
where yeah they just come and like yeah
don't be like me I don't know how to
cook so I get to bust real time and it's
just a waste no you should learn how to
cook before you come here I feel like
it's yeah it's yeah you just feel like
me and get a friend like season and eat
her food yeah she always be it's really
harder to get admitted to Cambridge as
an international student no your
judgement seemed standard why did you
decide to do a law degree and not just
convert into it later I want to do law
anyway so I want to have a good
foundation or grounding and because I
want to go back to Singapore and
practice there I cannot convert it it's
not options thing about I need a
qualifying law degree to be your
practice in Singapore so practical
concerns as well yeah I think you can I
think if you want to convert it's it's
fine so I when I went out to a few law
firms they usually have about a 50-50
split would have done the GDL and
who-who did you law degrees I think if
you're interested in law as a subject
I'm a law degree is just better because
you actually have more time to look at
some of the more interesting niche more
nuanced parts of law do you have free
time during the day or in a week yes you
schedule your free time you make your
time for you you need to make time yeah
how do we know which cars to choose to
the fees for each one varied depending
on a college is it more easier difficult
to get accepted to Cambridge no actually
there isn't a difference yet if you
apply if you're good
and you apply to a college in if they
kind of accept you they'll pull you and
then another college what they use so
that is actually theoretically no
different yeah also even if you think
about it so even if the college
theoretically had ten places to give
away and they only had ten applicants
and they actually fought only five of
them were good then they can fill the
other five spots with candidates who got
pulled from other colleges so don't look
at the numbers of who applied to which
college everything is gonna be easier to
get in somewhere just because there's
less people applying doing another
quality yeah I was I think if you if you
like the college then just apply there
anyway and even if it ends up being more
competitive for certain spaces like the
factually there are seven colleges so
for law for example downing is one which
is often applied to you for law then
that will be more competitive
there's basis just because more people
are going for it but that doesn't mean
that your ability to the University is
hampered yeah it's just you're better to
get into college but that's really it um
um you know and yet you're still gonna
you know do the same degree just maybe
at the different colleges and everybody
ends up loving their college really like
I haven't met anybody so far who didn't
like a college like some people you know
to get pool and they're not really
excited to start but then you go there
you discover the community and what
makes the college special and generally
people just fall in love a bit what was
the IP requirement okay so the general
IB requirement for law at the University
of Cambridge is an overall score of four
to two of seven seven six but remember
they can change your offer incident for
me and when it turned into a forty three
or seven seven six
how many lectures do you usually have in
a week eleven and McComas eight
system yeah what are the free most
prestigious colleges of Cambridge
that's yeah no that's not that's not how
that works
no no Johnny answer this and what are
the free most prestigious colleges of
Cambridge John's John's John's I concur
yeah what's the most important element
that got you to Cambridge I think your
work ethic and maybe you're like I just
your passion your passion for the law
yes yeah yeah but also I think a lot of
times one thing to remember is they only
get like a little you know snapshot in
time of you because they see you in the
interview in and maybe have an admission
test for your subject and I've always
had and they also have your personal
statement I be very important that to
remember that you know they only have
this like very limited information about
you and if you have been having a bad
day or something on the day of your
interview or something and then maybe
don't get in um like it doesn't mean
you're not you know passionate about
yourself jag or you would be smart
enough to study law at Cambridge and
there's just a lot of factors outside
that that play into it but don't faint
yet you know just because some people go
to Cambridge means they are more
passionate about their subject and
people will maybe study at UCL or
whatever it's absolutely not true
how'd you do well on the admissions test
we never admissions test back yeah we
actually did connect my system
yeah wait to see how do I know well yeah
I think we might I'll see my great I
don't think I am but I did like this and
me on it and honestly it's just like
just treat it like an any nobody that I
don't put too much stress on yourself I
think that some of it wasn't all so um
I'm gonna have the video bathmate
interviewed link down below where I also
linked down some practice resources for
the admissions test because there's
actually one college which published
like a sample paper and there you can
also see the grading scale so I found
that quite helpful in preparing what's
your biggest tip for the interview
process don't be nervous
and be yourself I think being nervous is
kind of inevitable a bit or trying to
control it yeah no don't don't let you
anxiety get the best you I just think
think through what they ask you yeah and
also don't be too stubborn yes a lot of
the time if you substan me stick to what
you're saying and they point out
something to you and you know they they
expect you to argue because it's a law
degree so you want to defend your point
of view that there's a point of waste of
em your point of view becomes they
notice territory you just just stick to
something that's clearly wrong
yeah or you know perhaps you need to
think through it more have one topic
that you know that
can talk about confident do you hear and
most importantly read for your personal
statement because the topic you touch on
there my topic that the people interview
you are going to assume are important to
you so they're going to expect you to
have knowledge on them yeah I think I
thought well I thought really helpful
was that my wording my school did a mock
interview which I recognize that every
school can do but also my brother looked
through my personal statement and
decided what questions he thought he
would ask if he was to read a as just a
normal person and so that's quite useful
because then you could sometimes your
personal statement there's some quite
obvious questions that come up and you
should really know the answers to them
because you've perhaps left gaps in your
personal statement that any shooter
would want to fill up and see if you you
actually know your stuff and so that's
quite good if you can get someone in
your family or one of your friends to do
that also don't be Andrew know where you
want to start it all we're used to get a
place if you do not achieve your
conditions really depends on like how
many who didn't achieve you often that
you're so like it's really entirely
other the discretion of the admissions
people in the college generally don't
risk it like I know for John's law there
were at least two other people who had
an offer and John's did not take them
because we all met our office so they
were like no we filled out spots
yeah can non-eu students obtain
bursaries yes you can but there are only
specific ones that you can apply for
also check if your college actually has
some for non-eu students and this is
something you willing to check before a
problem if you know that you're gonna
need financial aid for going to
Cambridge um and yes it's possible but
they are a more limited availability
very very diverse for EU and UK students
yeah and yeah that one's arcane which to
name thank you guys so much for your
questions and thank you for watching if
you guys have any type of questions feel
free to drop them in a comment below or
send me a message for the context
section of my blog which is linked in
the infobox below if you get to know
more about these free guys I'm gonna
have to social media link in the info
box below and you have to get so much
for watching have a nice day bye buddy